Privacy Policy

1. What personal information do we collect?
Information you provide to us
You may provide the following information to us in our stores and online:
Personal and contact information, such as name, date of birth, email address, mobile/landline telephone number, home address, age, and gender
IKEA FAMILY or IKEA Business Network card number
Employment and company contact information or IKEA Business Network accounts
Payment information, such as credit card information and billing address
Purchasing activity, product preferences, reasons for purchasing a product, family and lifestyle
Information you post: If you comment or otherwise provide information in a public space on one of our websites, we collect a record of it and any personal information included in the comment. For example, this may include posting a review of a product
Information you provide through social media
Photographs, images, designs or measurements of your home or workspace when you use our IKEA Design page or app, or our planning tools
Other information you give us when you contact our customer services team, when you engage with our social media platform (for example by tagging us in a post on Instagram), when you sign up for IKEA FAMILY membership, when you create a gift registry, or when you otherwise interact with us
Some of our stores have supervised children’s play areas (“Småland”) which can be used while you shop. In order to use these areas, you will be asked to provide information including the child’s name and age, the parent’s or guardian’s name, address, telephone number and signature, and any necessary health information 
Information collected through automated means
We may use automated technology such as cookies and other tracking software to collect personal information from your computer system or mobile device. We may collect the following information:
Internet Protocol (IP) address or other device identifier
Browser type and version
Browsing information, such as pages you view and the links you click, how you interact with the emails we send you, and whether you access our website via a social media site
Time zone setting
Browser plug-in types and versions
Operating system and platform
Other portable device information
With your permission, we may also collect your precise location data. We may also collect the time spent visiting, usage patterns, and the domain name of the website from which you linked to our websites.*
When you use our free in-store WiFi for your mobile device in an IKEA store, we collect your Media Access Control (MAC) address and location data.* If you do not want us to do this, please turn off the WiFi capability within your mobile device settings. 
*We use this information on an anonymous basis and do not use it to identify any particular user. We do not link this data to any other data that we hold about you.
Third parties may also provide us with additional publicly available information about you.

2. When do we collect your personal information?
You share personal information with us in various ways. For example, we receive personal information when you:
Purchase products and services from us in store, online, or over the phone
Make a return or exchange
Access our websites or use any of our mobile apps. (To find out more about the use of cookies and how you can manage them, please read our Cookie Policy)
Use our in-store WiFi services or have your WiFi switched on in-store
Create an online account
Join our IKEA FAMILY or IKEA Business Network loyalty program
Set up a gift registry
Participate in surveys, focus groups, competitions, promotions or certain discounts/coupons
Contact our customer services team in store, online or over the phone
Provide us your contact information so we can respond to your questions or concerns submitted through the in-store “Help Us to Improve” function
Submit an application for employment
Interact with us on social media (by mentioning/tagging us or by contacting us directly)
Interact with our websites, such as when you visit our websites on a device, enable location-based features, or click on sponsored links or third-party advertisements on our websites or on other websites and online services
Interact with emails we send you
Fill out a product registration form
Request a catalog or subscribe to our email list
Visit stores: IKEA uses cameras in and around its stores for security and operational purposes. We may also retain an image of your likeness if you provide your picture to us
Use our supervised children’s play area (“Småland”)
Apply for an IKEA Visa® Credit Card
Sign up for mobile notifications regarding updates at your local IKEA store
At this time, we do not track our users’ personal information over time and across third-party websites. We therefore do not respond to browser Do Not Track signals.

We use your personal information for business purposes: to make our products and services available to you; to personalize your shopping experience; to improve our operations; and for security and legal reasons.
Some examples of how we use your personal information include:
Processing and fulfilling orders online or in-stores, including by facilitating the delivery of product orders and providing relevant customer service, including processing your returns
Communicating with you regarding purchases
Providing you with services you request
Responding to your questions and comments
Measuring your customer satisfaction
Enabling the safe and secure use of our supervised children’s play area in certain stores (Småland)
Providing you with marketing material via SMS, mail and email (with your consent where required by law)
Analyzing shopping trends through account activity and purchase history to provide you a personalized browsing experience
Sending IKEA FAMILY members special promotions based on store spend or customer birthday
Sending IKEA Business Network members special promotions, surveys, and offers
Allowing you to create a profile on our websites which enables you to purchase IKEA products and services online without having to fill in your personal information every time you shop online with us
Ensuring that our websites are presented in the most effective and relevant manner for you and your device, including setting default options for you such as language and store location
Conducting checks for fraud or other illegal activity
Protecting our rights or property (or those of others)
Fulfilling our legal and compliance-related obligations (such as if we receive a legitimate request from a law enforcement agency)

4. With whom do we share your personal information?
In order for us to provide our products and services to you, we share some of your personal information with trusted third-party service providers, with other members of the IKEA-brand corporate family, or with public authorities. For example:
We use third party service providers to help with delivery, product assembly and installation, waste removal, processing payments, and other services. Your personal information may be stored and processed by our vendors and service providers in the United States or other locations where the service providers or IKEA have facilities.
We may share your financial information including your credit, debit card or other payment information with third parties to ensure that your payment is safe and that your details are not being used fraudulently
When you create a gift registry, we may publicly share the information that you provide, including your personal information and event details so that your guests can find your registry information.
We may disclose your personal information to our insurers where we believe that it is required by law or contract
We use pixels and cookies in our work with customer database hosting providers, marketing agencies and advertising partners to place relevant content and advertisements for you on our own websites and apps, as well as other websites, online media channels and apps (see Cookie Policy)
We may share information with other members of the IKEA-brand corporate family to facilitate operations and business
We may share information with our product suppliers to ensure product quality and safety
We may share or disclose your personal information with law enforcement agencies or public authorities in order to prevent or detect crime or fraudulent activities, as well as in order to fulfill any legal or regulatory obligations
We may share your personal information to comply with court orders and to exercise and/or defend our legal rights
We may share your personal information in the event we sell or transfer all or a portion of our business or assets
We may use your personal information with your consent or as otherwise permitted or required by law 
We also disclose non-private, deidentified, aggregate or otherwise non-personal information with third parties, including social media companies like Facebook and Twitter, and online advertising companies like Google, to deliver targeted advertising about other products and services for marketing purposes. You may opt-out of receiving marketing messages by using the opt-out mechanisms and links provided in each message.

5. How do we protect the privacy of children?
IKEA does not knowingly collect or use any personal information from children younger than 13 on IKEA websites or mobile applications. We do not knowingly allow children to order our products, communicate with us, or use any of our online services. If you are a parent and become aware that your child has provided us with information, please contact us using one of the methods specified below, and we will work with you to address this issue.

6. What are your rights with respect to your personal information?
Depending on your jurisdiction, you may have certain rights with respect to your personal information.  If you would like to speak to us about any of your rights, please contact us (see section 11).
International Transfers We may share information about you with our affiliates and transfer it to countries in the world where we do business in connection with the uses identified above.  Any international transfers of personal information will be in accordance with this Privacy Policy and in compliance with applicable laws. By using our websites or mobile apps or otherwise providing personal information to us, you agree to the international transfer and processing of your information. While certain products may be sold outside the United States, including in the European Union, our websites and mobile apps are not marketed to or intended to be used by any non-United States resident.
Your Nevada Privacy Rights Nevada residents have the right to submit a verified request directing us not to sell their personal information. If you are a Nevada resident, and would like to submit such a request, please send your request to infosec.dataprivacy.us@ikea.com. 
Your California Privacy Rights ACCESS TO SPECIFIC INFORMATION AND DATA PORTABILITY RIGHTS FOR CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS
You have the right, subject to certain exceptions defined in the California Consumer Protection Act “CCPA” and other applicable laws and regulations, to request that companies disclose certain information to you about their collection and use of your personal information over the past 12 months. This right of access includes information about:
The categories of personal information we collected about you.
The categories of sources for the personal information we collected about you.
Our business or commercial purpose for collecting or selling that personal information.
The categories of third parties to whom we disclosed or sold that personal information. The categories of personal information we disclosed or sold to each category of third parties
The specific pieces of personal information we collected about you.
DELETION REQUEST RIGHTS You have the right, subject to certain exceptions defined in the CCPA and other applicable laws and regulations, to request that a company delete any of your personal information that it has collected from you and retained, subject to certain exceptions.
 
EXERCISING ACCESS, DATA PORTABILITY, AND DELETION RIGHTS To exercise the access, data portability, and deletion rights described above, California residents may submit a verifiable consumer request to us by either:
Calling us at 1-888-888-4532
Submitting an online request here
Requesting a submission card in-person at one of our California stores. 
The verifiable consumer request must:
Provide sufficient information that allows us to verify, to a reasonably high degree of certainty, that you are the person about whom we collected personal information.  This may include requesting that you provide us with at least two or more pieces of personal information to match against personal information about you that we may or may not maintain and which we have determined to be reliable for the purpose of verification.
Describe your request with sufficient detail that allows us to properly understand, evaluate, and respond to it. 
We cannot respond to your request or provide you with personal information if we cannot verify your identity or authority to make the request and confirm the personal information relates to you. Making a verifiable consumer request does not require you to create an account with us. We will only use personal information provided in a verifiable consumer request to verify the requestor’s identity or authority to make the request.
You may only make a verifiable consumer request for access or data portability twice within a 12-month period.
RIGHT TO OPT-OUT OF SALE OF PERSONAL INFORMATION
California law requires that we provide transparency about personal information we “sell,” which, for the purposes of the CCPA, broadly means scenarios in which IKEA has shared personal information with third parties in exchange for valuable consideration.  IKEA “sells” personal information for the commercial purpose of placing relevant content and advertisements for you on our own websites and apps, as well as other websites, online media channels and apps.  In the preceding 12 months, we have “sold” the following categories of personal information to the following categories of third parties:
Categories of Personal Information
Identifiers, such as unique personal identifier, online identifier, internet protocol address, or other similar identifiers.
Internet or other electronic network activity information, including, but not limited to, browsing history, search history, and information regarding a consumer’s interaction with an internet website, application, or advertisement.
Geolocation data
Inferences drawn from information collected to create a profile about a consumer.
Each of these categories of information are shared with our Advertising networks and partners, marketing agencies, and customer database hosting providers.
California consumers have the right to opt out of these sales at any time by visiting our “Do Not Sell My Personal Information” webpage here or emailing us at infosec.dataprivacy.us@ikea.com.  IKEA will also treat Global Privacy Control browser signals as opt-out of sale requests.  You can learn more about enabling Global Privacy Control opt-out of sale signals on your browser here.  If an authorized agent is submitting the Right to Opt-Out of Sale of Personal Information, they must provide us a signed written permission from the consumer demonstrating that they have been authorized by the consumer to act on the consumer’s behalf. If you are an authorized agent, please email us at infosec.dataprivacy.us@ikea.com so that we can confirm your authority to opt-out on behalf of the consumer. 
Please note that IKEA does not knowingly sell personal information about consumers under the age of 16.
AUTHORIZED AGENT
Only you, or a person you have designated in writing as your authorized agent, or who is registered with the California Secretary of State to act on your behalf, or to whom you have provided power of attorney pursuant to California Probate Code sections 4000 to 4465, (“Authorized Agent”), may make a verifiable consumer request to access or delete your personal information. You may also make a verifiable consumer request on behalf of your minor child.
If you wish to have an Authorized Agent make a request on your behalf, they will need to provide us with sufficient written proof that you have designated them as your Authorized Agent and we will still require you to provide sufficient information to allow us to reasonably verify that you are the person about whom we collected personal information.
NON-DISCRIMINATION
You have the right not to receive discriminatory treatment for exercising any of your CCPA rights. Unless permitted by the CCPA, we will not:
Deny you services.
Charge you different prices or rates for services, including through granting discounts or other benefits, or imposing penalties.
Provide you a different level or quality of services.
Suggest that you may receive a different price or rate for services or a different level or quality of services. 
However, we may offer you certain financial incentives permitted by the CCPA that can result in different prices, rates, or quality levels. Any CCPA-permitted financial incentive we offer will reasonably relate to your personal information’s value and contain written terms that describe the program’s material aspects. Participation in a financial incentive program requires your prior opt in consent, which you may revoke at any time. For example, if you become a member of IKEA Family, IKEA will provide you with certain benefits and special offers in exchange for you providing your contact information, other information about yourself, and opting in to IKEA marketing communications. More details are available at the IKEA Family website, the IKEA Family FAQ, and IKEA’s Terms of Use.
If you are a California resident, California Civil Code Section 1798.83 permits you to request a list of all third parties to which we, during the immediately preceding calendar year, have disclosed certain personally identifiable information for direct marketing purposes. IKEA does not share personal information about its consumers with any third parties outside the IKEA corporate family for their own marketing purposes. We are only required to respond to a customer request once during any calendar year. To make such a request you should send a letter to IKEA North America Services, LLC, Attn: California Privacy Rights; 420 Alan Wood Road, Conshohocken, PA 19428. Please be aware that not all information sharing is covered by the California privacy rights requirements and only information sharing that is covered will be included in our response.

7. How may you indicate your privacy preferences?
You can set your preferences in your online profile in our websites and apps.
If you no longer wish to receive our marketing materials, you can unsubscribe through your profile. You can also click the unsubscribe link in our marketing emails.
We want to ensure that all the information we have about our customers is correct and up to date. If you find that the personal information we have about you is inaccurate or needs updating (for instance, you may have changed your name or address) please update your profile.
For your mobile device, you may opt out of precise location tracking and/or push notifications by changing your settings. (Note that opting out may affect your ability to fully use the application.) To avoid collection of your MAC address and location data while you are within the IKEA store, turn off the WiFi capability on your phone or other electronic device within your device settings.

8. How do we keep your information safe?
We take the security of your personal information very seriously. We have implemented various strategies, controls, policies and measures to keep your information secure and keep these measures under close review. We use encryption techniques and other safeguards such as firewalls and password protection. This means that your information is protected and only accessible by personnel who need it to carry out their job responsibilities, or shared with third parties as described above. We implement physical controls in our buildings that restrict access to your personal information.

9. How long do we retain your information?
In general, we will only retain your personal information for as long as is necessary for the purposes described in this Privacy Policy. This means that the retention periods will vary according to the type of the information and the reason that we have the information.

10. Links to Third-Party Websites and Additional Terms
Our websites or social media may contain links to third-party sites that are not governed by this Privacy Policy. If you click on a link to a third-party site, you will be taken to a site we do not control. We are not responsible for the privacy practices used by third-party sites. We suggest that you read the privacy policies of those sites carefully.
IKEA’s current Terms of Use are available here. In addition, IKEA may from time to time offer special programs, events, promotions or services that have additional terms or privacy policies.  Those terms will be made available to you at or before the point where you will provide any personal information to IKEA.   

We provide price discounts, coupons, services and other perks for members of our loyalty programs (e.g., IKEA Family), IKEA Family members who participate in sweepstakes or contests, and customers who have signed up for our IKEA branded credit cards (collectively “programs”).  Through these offerings, consumers provide us with some personal information, such as identifiers (e.g., name, address, identification, online identifier, birthdate, phone number, and email address), when they opt-in to our programs.  For our IKEA branded credit cards, customers may also provide certain financial information to our financial institution partners (such as Social Security number and annual income), along with identifiers when they opt-in.  There is no obligation to opt-in and consumers may opt-out at any time.  The details of each program are contained in the program offering.  
We offer these programs, among other things, to enhance our relationship with you so you can enjoy more of our products and services at a lower price.  We invest heavily in our marketing and brands, in part, so we can provide programs to our customers.  Consumer data is valuable to our business only when it is combined with a sufficient number of other consumer data and after it is enhanced by our efforts described below.  The value to our business of any individual consumer’s personal information is dependent on a number of factors, including, for example, whether and to what extent you take advantage of any offerings, whether and to what extent you opt out of any offerings, and whether we are able to enhance the data through our efforts described below.  Our ability to create any value from the programs is heavily based on our ability to leverage said intellectual properties.  We do not calculate the value of consumer data in our accounting statements.  We make this good faith estimate for California residents.   
To the extent we create overall value from our programs to our business that could be directly or reasonably related to the value of customer data, the method for calculating same would include:  (1) the expenses associated with the offer, provision or imposition of any financial incentive or price or service differences, such as our intellectual property, data analytics, and marketing operations, (2) the expenses related to the collection, retention and enhancement of customer’s personal information, and (3) all other expenses reasonably related to the programs. 
You can opt-in to, or opt-out of, our programs at any time through the same means they are offered, or by contacting us at IKEA’s Privacy Contacts section below. 

IKEA does not collect biometric information from the public.  
In instances when IKEA collects co-worker Biometric Data, IKEA only retains such Biometric Data for as long as necessary for the purpose of the collection of the Biometric Data.  IKEA deletes co-worker Biometric Data approximately 30 days of a co-worker’s departure from IKEA or when a co-worker undertakes a job change and their Biometric Data is no longer needed for the purpose for which it is collected.

13. IKEA’s Privacy Contacts
If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy or your rights under it please contact:
Address: IKEA North America Services, LLC Attn: Data Privacy Manager 420 Alan Wood Rd Conshohocken PA 19428
Telephone: 1-888-888-4532
E-mail: infosec.dataprivacy.us@ikea.com

14. Changes to this Privacy Policy
We may update this Privacy Policy from time to time. Please regularly check for updates. You can tell if the Privacy Policy has changed by checking the revision date that appears above. If we change this Privacy Policy in a material way, we will provide appropriate notice to you. By using our websites or mobile apps, you agree to accept the terms of this Privacy Policy as stated at the time you use them.

Terms and conditions
Effective Date: December 2022
These terms and conditions (the “Terms and Conditions”) govern and apply to anyone accessing or using the IKEA North America Services, LLC website located at www.ikea.com/ms/en_US, and any associated websites, mobile sites or applications, products, software and other services (collectively, the “Services”). These Terms and Conditions apply to any use of the Services.
The Services are owned and operated by IKEA North America Services and its parents, affiliates, and/or franchisors (collectively, “IKEA,” “we,” “our,” or “us”). While using the Services, please be aware that your access to and use of the Services and any information or documents offered by IKEA (“Materials”) are subject to these Terms and Conditions. If you choose to continue to use or access the Services after having the opportunity to read these Terms and Conditions, you are indicating your acceptance of the Terms and Conditions and IKEA’s Privacy Policy. If you do not agree with any part of these Terms and Conditions or IKEA’s Privacy Policy, please do not use the Services.
IKEA reserves the right to modify these Terms and Conditions at any time without notice, and such changes shall be deemed effective immediately upon posting of the modified Terms and Conditions. You should regularly review these Terms and Conditions to ensure that you are aware of, understand and accept any changes made. Your continued use of the Services following the posting of changes to these Terms and Conditions will indicate your acceptance those changes.
THE SERVICES ARE NOT INTENDED FOR USE OR ACCESS BY ANYONE UNDER THE AGE OF 18. IF YOU ARE UNDER THE AGE OF 18, YOU MAY NOT USE OR ACCESS THE WEBSITE OR PROVIDE US WITH ANY PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION. You may not use the Services and may not accept these Terms and Conditions if (1) you are not of legal age to form a binding contract with IKEA, or (2) you are a person barred from receiving the Services under the laws of the jurisdiction in which you are resident or from which you use the Services.   
How do I reserve products through As-is online?
For As-is online, you will find everything from discontinued items, gently used and even our ex-showroom displays. Although all items may be slightly used, they have been thoroughly inspected to ensure functionality and safety.
Follow these steps to see available products through As-is online at your local store.
The service is currently only available to IKEA Family members. You can find out more details about IKEA Family or sign up for the IKEA Family program. Or sign up here.
Choose your selected Store from the drop-down menu located on the right.
Review and select the product that fits your needs. See the condition of the product by looking at the uploaded photos under the “defects tab” and by reading the comments.
Click the reserve button and the product will be reserved for 48 hours. For example, if you book on Monday, the item will be reserved until the store closes on Wednesday night.
Go to the selected store during regular business hours and during the reserved period.
The price posted for the product is the price of the product when purchased in store, additional applicable discounts may apply.
Once at the selected store, go to As-is department window and show your reservation number to a coworker to pick up your reserved product.
Inspect your product packaging and review any safety information, then bring it to the cash lanes to complete your purchase.
Products purchased through as-is online reservation are subject to our As-is terms and conditions. They include no warranty and may not be returned through IKEA’s normal return process. Return policy here